PREFACE

hello.

I am returning to the PP sub to write and submit my largest DD. I have not been as involved on the platform where we all started. It is only fair to give a hat-tip to where we came from, to prepare ourselves for where we are going.

This is not financial advice and you would have to be crazy to interpret it as such. Have you met me? I don't even sit on my own couch.

TLDR

This will be difficult because the aim of the post is to challenge everyone's individual thinking and then to receive feedback of those thoughts. Giving a TLDR would ruin this as it would introduce bias.

The best I can do is, what if how we believed this has played out was not the entire story, or just incorrect?

INTRODUCTION

I want us to revisit the timeline and relationships that occurred from March 2022 to April 2023. I believe that there could be clues that have not been found within the information from the SEC filings. I say that because prior to Chapter 11, that was the main/only source of information. Later, we will revisit this period in time through the declarations of various professionals involved in the Company's Chapter 11, when they had given their declarations to the Judge for why they should be allowed to represent and continue to work with the Debtors thereafter. This will be a multi-part post series.

Part 1: We are here. We will focus on the chronology of events and the goal is to refresh everyone on the important occurrences and participants. Equally, I will be discussing who entered the scene and when, as I believe and will attempt to substantiate my thinking that these were intentional actions by the parties involved.

Part 2: we will explore the potential relationships and inter-connectedness of these participants, with information and evidence to substantiate my thinking and explorations. If this doesn't break the character limit, then I will attempt to combine it with part 3, otherwise..

Part 3: we will jump timelines and explore April 2023 to September 29, 2023. I will share some theories on which participants I believe were still involved throughout the Chapter 11 process, while at the same time further-substantiating the purposeful intentions of the participants that we will introduce in Part 1.

Part 4: we will attempt to bring it all together in a concise manner to try and "tell a story" as I feel that will be the best way to make a lot of it make sense.

Let's go.

BODY

For the longest time, one of the main bear counterpoints to the BBBYQ play was that the participants were arriving to line their own pockets; to be opportunists, you could say. And on its face it is an angle that cannot be simply refuted as crazy-talk, as this behaviour is rampant in the capital markets where financial exploitation and profit margins are the name of the game and quite aptly are sometimes referred to as a "fuck you, I got mine" mentality.

But the bears never substantiated any of that line of thinking, nor did they ever prove any financial interest in the stock either long or short. Therefore, I can only speculate that their intention was to sow FUD or worse, behavioural tendencies that we don't need to get into.

Regardless, in this post we will attempt to provide counterpoints to some of that bearish thinking.

For simplicity and mindfulness of post-length, we will begin in March 2022 and with Ryan Cohen's letter to the board. But please, keep in mind that in order for RC to have sent this letter, he had already made the share purchases going back to January 2022 and further, before someone of his business acumen accumulates a near-10% ownership stake, he had been conducting diligence, consulting with affiliates and strategically planning his move for much longer. It is therefore of course possible that his interest, and by extension the planning and collaboration with who would be involved, could date much further into the past.

We've all seen (if not read) the RC letter to the board from March 6, 2022. So I will provide a concise summary — of an already very concisely written document, to his credit — to give some perspective:

• Board compensation is completely detached from Company performance. Directors are not significant shareholders and interests are de-coupled from the Company.

• Poor forward-looking strategy for re-igniting growth.

• Poor shareholder return on investment.

• A direct recognition of the Company's short interest.

2.

• Conduct a full-or-partial sale of Baby.

3.

• Evaluate a full sale to a well-capitalized acquirer. — important! Keep in mind this is before Chapter 11 and RC is suggesting that BBBY sell the entire business to someone, "with the ability to pay a meaningful premium." The stock price at the time of the letter was ~16$ and ~80M TSO, but remember also all the expensive leases, the debt, the bonds looming being due.

4.

• "strengthen leadership's alignment with shareholders." Get paid tons when you give tons to shareholders. Re-align your interests.

source to the letter: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/886158/000119380522000426/ex991to13d13351002_03072022.htm

Ryan Cohen clearly had an interest in this Company and I will speculate that more specifically, Baby.

There is a proxy battle that is very short. By March 25, Ryan Cohen inserts three directors of his choosing to the Board of Directors. The Company's press release states:

"Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. Announces Cooperation Agreement with Ryan Cohen

Appoints Three New Independent Directors to the Board with Finance and Strategy Experience"

Finance and Strategy Experience. Cool. They are:


r/ThePPShow - CORRECTING THE TITANIC: The Chronology of BBBY as a Company from March 2002 to April 2023, Part 1:

source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/886158/000114036122011120/brhc10035704_ex99-1.htm

Immediately, two of these three directors join (it was likely created with their arrival, but that is never confirmed) a strategy committee focused on:

"In conjunction with the cooperation agreement, Bed Bath & Beyond today announced that Ms. Bowen and Mr. Rosenzweig, will join a four-member Strategy Committee focused on exploring alternatives to unlock greater value from the Company’s buybuy BABY banner."

Talk about going to WORK.

On June 29, Mark Tritton is fired as CEO by the Board of Directors. Many news outlets publish the story adding that he was pushed out. At the same time, Sue Gove is appointed interim-CEO and I personally believe this is Day 1 that Plan A could have begun to be implemented. But again, by the time something has begun being acted upon it would have already been in the works for some time prior, and I want to remind everyone that Carl Icahn's IEP was hit with the Hindenburg "short report" on May 2.

Mr. Icahn had taken a substantial loan out against his IEP units in XXXX and the newsmedia widely reports that he was at risk of a margin call on those loans. Was this an attempt to sabotage the potential actions and funding plans for "a well-capitalized acquirer"?

We all know this, but one thing that I did not realize until I began writing this post is that Mr. Icahn paid off all of IEP's 2024 bonds on January 18, 2022.


r/ThePPShow - CORRECTING THE TITANIC: The Chronology of BBBY as a Company from March 2002 to April 2023, Part 1:

source: https://www.sec.gov/ix?doc=/Archives/edgar/data/0000813762/000110465922005417/tm223784d1_8k.htm

—

Hmm, but we have the counterpoint that Ryan Cohen sold his position on August 18, 2022. So let's take a look into what else occurred in August and by extension, what may have occurred between June and August of 2022?

I am going to assume that between March and August since the appointment of the members to the board, there were negotiations happening. Things moved positively as I could speculate that then CEO, Mark Tritton, could have been opposed to RC's strategy and well, he was removed. But that doesn't matter.

But between July and August, I speculate that either talks broke down, or a plan of action was formed.

On August 17, Ryan Cohen files a form 144 proposing that he has an intention to sell his BBBY position at some time in the future. (The Form 144 does allow for a window of time).

But what what bears conveniently often forget to mention is that following that release, BBBY issued a statement on August 18 PRE-MARKET in the form of an 8-K, stating:

"“[w]e were pleased to have reached a constructive agreement with RC Ventures in March and are committed to maximizing value for all shareholders . . . we have been working expeditiously over the past several weeks with external financial advisors and lenders on strengthening our balance sheet. . .”

Then, after that, on August 18 POST-MARKET, Ryan Cohen submitted an SEC filling that he had sold his common stock position on August 16 and 17, 2022.

Now WHY would the Company be issuing a statement the morning after RC had completed the sale of his position, that they had reached an agreement?

Sounds a bit different when you look at the full picture, doesn't it?

Following this, Sixth Street enters the picture.

On September 1, they issue a press release that the Company had COMPLETED THE UPSIZING of the ABL to 1.13 billion dollars with JPM, as well as receiving a 375 million dollar FILO loan, providing access-to-capital. Remember, completed. As in they had approached and been working on it with the Company prior to September 1.

source: https://sixthstreet.com/investment_announce/union-n-j-bed-bath-beyond-inc-nasdaq-bbby-today-announced-the-successful-completion-of-its-previously-disclosed-financing-agreements/

Importantly, at the same time, the media is having a field day with RC selling and from August 19 to 23, the stock price plummets from 18.55$ on August 18, to 8.78$ on August 23.

Can you tell me, when the media is portraying this is as an ER MAH GERD and that the Company is done for, JPM increases their ABL and Sixth Street provides money?

It doesn't add up unless, the media is trying to push a narrative and something else is actually happening.

—

Now, we all (basically) know all this and it has been written about before. But I needed to add it so that the next part makes sense.

So, I want to challenge everyone's thinking and throw something out there:

What if Ryan Cohen and the Board of Directors of BBBY, never saw eye-to-eye? Or, what if they had opposing strategies for the best outcome of the Company? I know, you're saying "this isn't new information.." but hang on, because here is where I got really excited when I started thinking about this:


What if Ryan Cohen and affiliates forced the Company to an unwanted default on it's ABL with JP Morgan in January 2023?


Allow me to explain. We know that one of the events of default was the upside down ratio of inventory/money loaned on the ABL. But, they specifically state this in the SEC filing. They also state "among other reasons.." as in, there were other events that triggered the default as well. What order they occurred in we will never know, nor will we ever know how often JPM checks on the inventory/loan ratio on the ABL.

So then, why is the Company not admitting in detail, all of the events that occurred that caused the default? Did they want to save face from not looking like complete idiots? I could speculate that yes, that could be exactly why.

One thing that I have been thinking about since March 2023 that I have never been able to reconcile in my mind is: how could the Company and the Board of Directors be so stupid and such bumbling idiots, that they allowed these "other events of default" to occur under their noses at such a critical, cash-tight time?

After all, JPM took cash dominion over their accounts (no access to cash!) and the Company missed the February 1 payment on their bonds.

We have an abundance of evidence to substantiate the attempted leveraged buy-out that occurred in January 2023. Based on the credit agreement, we have speculated that one of the other events of default on the JPM ABL could have been a change of control.

What if Ryan Cohen attempted the LBO, not in alignment with the board, to force the Company into a precarious financial position?

It would explain the selling of the common stock position in August, as he may have realized that working with the Board was not going to work. Perhaps they were afraid of losing Baby as the rest of the business was in shambles, or, they just did not agree with RC's strategy? Coming in a few months before, bullying the Board around, winning a proxy, kicking out the CEO..

RC would need a new angle of approach.

But why? You may ask. Well, what if the intention was to back them into a corner where they could not refuse an offer from Hudson Bay Capital, coming in with an ATM Equity offering, when they already had such an agreement in place with Jeffries since August 2022?

Aha. In these circumstances then, the intentions of HBC suddenly become very clear. Do you remember this tweet from RC?


r/ThePPShow - CORRECTING THE TITANIC: The Chronology of BBBY as a Company from March 2002 to April 2023, Part 1:

This is dated April 12..

a week after the first business day after the end of Hudson Bay Capital's concession to remove price restrictions to allow for the continuance of the Equity Offering, where HBC receives warrants/preferred for cash. This was the second time they had amended the offering, removing restrictions they had put in place and I believe the concessions were made to continue the accumulation for HBC to meet their target position and ownership, despite the cellar-boxing.

What if RC tried complicating the situation for the Board of the Company, trying to force their hand against their desire to sell him Baby? Sounds like a strategy that someone else would implement.


r/ThePPShow - CORRECTING THE TITANIC: The Chronology of BBBY as a Company from March 2002 to April 2023, Part 1:

The stock price had been cellar-boxed since mid-February. I believe that was a deliberate attempt to prevent the Company from raising capital by not being able to fulfill the requirements of the equity offerings from February.

They admit themselves in SEC filings that they do not believe the stock price is reflective of the underlying business and their transformation plan.

You could make the argument that April 12 was the day that RC, or the Board and Company, decided that they were ready for, or, could not prevent/delay filing for Chapter 11 any further.

That tweet could have actually been about BBBY.

I am going to have to split Part 1 into two pieces, it is taking so long! Part 1.2 coming later today.

to be continued.